Howdy Peers,

After flooding you folks with ideas, our wire went silent for a bit. That's because we found something we're excited about. And we've begun building it.

If you are a volunteer FOSS developer, that says a few things about you. You (probably) genuinely enjoy programming. You are an engaged member of a community. Depending on how much you participate, it means you are a good communicator. Your code itself has a story to tell of its own, about your skills and interests as a programmer.

Your efforts to improve FOSS speak volumes about you as a person. They also signal that you would be probably be a good member of a programming team-- in a volunteer setting, or in a business setting.

Businesses value FOSS for many reasons. This is another one.

So here is what we are doing. We are making a tool which will give FOSS developers a way to showcase their experience. Like Ohloh, but with two big differences. The first is that we are thinking about how to get developers good jobs. They can show prospective employers real code. They can verify the claims on their resumes. The second I'll mention in a moment.

So the first part of our mission is to get FOSS programmers into good jobs. In so doing, we'll encourage more IT hirers to value free code, not to mention fight the recession.

That's the business side of things; our mission has a second core. We think it could be way easier to help developers find bugs to squish; requests for features, technical support and advice; and invitations to collaborate.

This tool can do two things:

1. Recommend volunteer opportunities ("opps") and jobs to developers. To do this, we'll track info about opps and jobs (what are the languages, toolkits and skills involved in this opp/job?). We'll ask developers to tell us about their skills and interests. We'll use this data to make good recommendations.

2. Showcase your activity in the free software community. This profile grabs data from source repositories, bug trackers and mailing lists; you can help it find your activity by sharing your username, email address, and full name. We can begin our search on the Ohloh open source index and add other sources as we get going.

2a. We hope these profiles will be fun to make and look at it. And it's a short step from profile to resume. The magic is that the FOSS sections of your resume can be linked, if you like, to the actual code you wrote.

2b. We'll be working hard on

Employers and volunteer coordinators will be able to use that data to search for potential employees and volunteers, and we will present the profile data to employers in a nice Human Resources-friendly format.

We think employers will appreciate resumes linked to code. First, we provide verifiable resumes. Do you really have "3 years of Python experience"? Well, let's see proof! Where are the commit logs that show it? Second, we provide 

We also believe this will help employers find the best developers for the job in a number of ways: for example, employers frequently do not get the opportunity to look at a developer's code until after they have interviewed the developer, and sometimes not even then (since proprietary software companies are generally reluctant to share code). With our system, an employer will have the option of looking at each potential employee's actual code well before they interview the developer, and potentially save a lot of time by weeding out the mediocre coders. Similarly, when a proprietary software developer hands you a resume, the only way you can verify the work they've claimed on their resume and check whether it was well-received is to call each former employer. We will make it easy to verify an open source developer's resume automatically, by allowing you to see exactly what their contributions were, and to see how people in the community responded to it.

We hope to be able to make money by charging employers a fee when they post jobs, and perhaps also charging consulting agencies for access to our database.

We have begun coding a search interface for jobs / volunteer opportunities, and a profile-builder so FOSS contributors can claim their contributions. But before we show our (early) prototypes to you, we'd love to get your input on the overall business concept. What do you think?

We have learned that changing course is important and maybe even unavoidable. We expect to. share stining crtiicism

~Nelson~
